For some reason, successive 3D Euler rotations are much more confusing than they should be. 
Or maybe I'm stupid. Hopefully, by writing it down, this topic will bake itself into my brain. This was written
quickly, so don't expect to gain any deep insight from reading it.

Firstly, the order in which the transformations are applied does matter (there are 6, or 3
factorial, possible permutations). Let's take the XYZ order. I would first rotate around the X axis.
This is like the outter gimbal ring, since it isn't affected by the other rotations (imagine an implicit
identity matrix being transformed). However, the Y and Z axes are rotated in this process. When I now
apply the Y axis rotation, it is done RELATIVE -- like all linear transformations -- to the new local 
coordinate system generated by the X axis rotation. Thus, we imagine the Y axis around which I now rotate is 
the one that was transformed by the previous X rotation. The Y axis is thus analogous to the middle gimbal 
ring, since it is moved by the X axis, or outter gimbal ring. The same logic applies for the Z axis, or 
innermost gimbal ring.

Mathematically, this plays out because a composition of linear transformations involves multiplying matrices
by each other. Abstractly, this operation can be thought of as applying the new transformation individually 
to each basis vector of the original -- or antecedent -- matrix in the sequence (not always the identity 
matrix, as its somehow easy to believe intuitively). It follows that transformations only transform basis 
vectors that come antecedent in the composition. They therefore can't -- and don't -- transform basis vectors 
that come afterwards. This is mathematical proof that rotations are not affected by those that come after, but 
are affected by those that come before (since they transform the NEW local coordinate system). It's helpful to 
imagine an implicit identity matrix that the first transformation in the composition works on.

Then comes the equally unintuitive (or once again, maybe I'm just dumb) issue of translations represented
by the W basis vector. How do they fit into a sequence of Euler-angle rotations? Let's imagine I rotate
first. We know that transformations in a composition are affected by those that come before, but not after.
Great. If I translate and then rotate, everything goes as expected. The translation occurs normally, and then
the translated point is rotated.

Mathematically, you can simply imagine that the W basis vector is itself rotated to point in the direction
of the new local coordinate system (since we can imagine each basis vector being transformed independently).

However, what's interesting is that, if the translation is applied afterwards, it is ALWAYS (well, pretty much)
applied relative to the world coordinate system (generally the identity matrix). This is due to the unique
nature of the W vector, in that it isn't really a basis vector in the way X, Y, and Z are. It's simply a 
clever way to translate 3D points, since the W component is generally 1 in homogenous coordinates. Since the 
W components of the X, Y, and Z basis vectors are rarely anything but 0, the translation values
aren't added at all to the basis vectors of the rotation matrix, and the entire W vector of the translation
matrix remains exactly as it was prior to the multiplication (just think about the multiplication process, and 
this quickly makes sense).

This, in another sharp turn from intuition, means that we actually want to apply the translation first in the
design of the camera-to-world matrix. Picture yourself as the viewer. Your entire perspective is rotated 
90 degrees. If my translation vector is <5, 0, 0> in the world coordinate system, it will now be different
from my new rotated perspective. This means that, while I wanted my view to shift 5 units right, it actually
appears to shift vertically. To eliminate this issue, we intentionally rotate the translation by the camera's
rotation, therefore making it appear the same from my rotated perspective.

You could also just hold a pencil horizontally and rotate your head. Does it still appear horizontal? No,
unless you're in some seperate non-Euclidian plane of existence. Now rotate the pencil with your head, so
that it continues to appear horizontal. Our concept here is the exact same.